	• IAM
		○ Identity
			§ Users
			§ Groups
			§ Role
				□ Type
					® Service Role
					® Service-Linked Role
				□ Permission Policy
				□ Trust Policy
					® Trusting Account/Entity
					® Trusted Account/Entity
				□ Delegated Role - allowed cross account
				□ Federated Role - for SSO
				□ Best Practice
					® For applications
					® Working with IdP
					® For application requiring temporary access
				□ Policy Simulator
	• EC2 (like a VM hosted in public cloud)
		○ Features
			§ Select the capacity
			§ Grow and shrink when you need
			§ Pay for what you use
			§ Wait minutes not months
		○ Pricing models
			§ On Demand (by the hour/second)
				□ Flexible, no up-front payment
				□ Short-Term, applications with unpredictable workloads that cannot be interrupted
				□ POC/Testing
			§ Reserved (1-3 years, up to 72% discount on the hourly, regional)
				□ Applications with predictable usage
				□ Specific capacity requirements
				□ Pay up-front
				□ Types
					® Standard RI's (up to 72% off on-demand prices, you cannot change)
					® Convertible RI's (up to 54% off on-demand price)
					® Scheduled RI's (recurring, predictable schedule)
			§ Spot (Purchase unused capacity, up to 90% discount, prices fluctuates, can be terminated/hybernated)
				□ Flexible - For applications with flexible start/end time.
				□ Urgent Capacity - Users with urgent need for large capacity.
				□ Cost sensitive - For applications that are only feasible at very low compute prices.
			§ Dedicated (Physical EC2 server, most expensive)
				□ Application with compliance requirements 
				□ Application with licensing requirements
				□ Types
					® On-demand
					® Reserved (up to 70% off)
			§ Savings Plan
				□ Up to 72% off
				□ Commit to 1-3 years
				□ Not only EC2 but other serverless technologies like Lambda and Fargate.
			§ AWS Pricing Calculator
		○ Instance Type
			§ Offers different compute, memory and storage capabilities.
			§ Select instance type based on the requirements of your application.
		○ EBS Volumes (storage disk)
			§ Purpose: create file system, run a database, run an OS, store data, install applications
			§ Features
				□ For mission critical production workloads
				□ Highly available
					® Automatically replicated in AZ
				□ Highly scalable
					® Dynamically increases capacity and change the type of volume with no downtime
			§ Volume Types
				□ General Purpose SSD (gp2)
					® For boot disk and general application
					® 3 IOPS per GB
					® Up to 16k IOPS per volume
					® Up to 99.9% durability
				□ General Purpose SSD (gp3)
					® For boot disk and general application
					® 3k IOPS for all volumes
					® Up to 16k IOPS per volume
					® Up to 99.9% durability
					® 20% cheaper than gp2
				□ Provisioned IOPS SSD (io1)
					® For OLTP and latency sensitive applications
					® 50 IOPS per GB
					® Up to 64k IOPS per volume
					® Up to 99.9% durability
					® High performance and most expensive
				□ Provisioned IOPS SSD (io2)
					® For OLTP and latency sensitive applications
					® 500 IOPS per GB
					® Up to 64k IOPS per volume
					® Up to 99.999% durability
				□ Provisioned IOPS SSD (io2 Block Express) - SAN in the cloud
					® For largest, most critical, high performance applications: SAP Hana, Oracle, MS SQL Server, IBM DB2
					® Up to 64TB, 256k IOPS per volume
					® Up to 99.999% durability
					® SAN in the cloud
				□ Throughput Optimized HDD (st1)
					® For Big Data, DW, ETL workloads
					® Max throughput is 500MB/s per volume
					® Cannot be a boot volume
					® Up to 99.9% durability
				□ Cold HDD (sc1)
					® Less frequently-accessed data
					® Max throughput of 250 MB/s per volume
					® Cannot be a boot volume
					® Up to 99.9% durability
					® Lowest cost
			§ IOPS vs Throughput
				□ IOPS
					® Measures number of read and write per second
					® Metric for quick transactions, low latency apps, transactional workloads
					® Ability to action reads and writes very quickly
				□ Throughput
					® Measures the number of bits read or written per second (MB/s)
					® Metric for large datasets, large I/O sizes, complex queries
					® Ability to deal with large data sets
			§ EBS Snapshots
				□ Point in time copy of EB volume. For backup or can be used in creating a new volume.
				□ If you create a new EBS volume from an encrypted snapshot, then you will get an encrypted volume.
				□ If you create a new EBS volume from an unencrypted snapshot, then you will get an unencrypted volume.
		○ Elastic Load Balancer
			§ Types
				□ Application Load Balancer (HTTP and HTTPS)
					® Operates at layer 7 (application) of OSI model. Application-Aware
					® Intelligent load balancing
				□ Network Load Balancer (TCP and High Performance)
					® Operates at layer 4 (Transport) of OSI model. Most expensive option
				□ Classic Load Balancer (HTTP, HTTPS and TCP) - legacy option
				□ Gateway Load Balancer
					® For 3rd-party appliance like firewall, IDP/IPS
				□ X-Forwarded-For header - if you need the IPv4 address of your end user, look for the x-forwarded-for header.
			§ Common Error
				□ Error 504 - gateway timeout
		○ Route 53 (DNS Service) - map domain name to EC2 instances, Load Balancers or S3 buckets
			§ Terminology
				□ Hosted Zone - a container for DNS records for your domain
				□ Alias - Allows you to route traffic addressed to the zone apex, or the top of the DNS namespace e.g. ilovecloud.com and send it to a resource within AWS e.g. an elastic load balancer.
				□ A Record - allows you to route traffic to a resource, such as web server, using IPv4 address.
		○ AWS CLI
			§ Least Privilege - always give users the minimum amount of access required to do their job.
			§ Use Groups - create IAM groups and assign your users to groups. Group permissions are assigned using IAM policy and your users will automatically inherit the permissions of the group.
			§ Access key is only available at the time off creation. If you lose it you need to create it again
			§ Supports Linux, Windows and MacOS
			§ Pagination, time out error may happen if result is too many. Adjust it using --page-size or --max-items
			§ Pagination, it still returns all items but make multiple API calls
		○ AWS Cloudshell
			§ Linux terminal with pre-installed tool. You can run AWS CLI commands from cloudshell
		○ Roles for EC2
		○ RDS
			§ For OLTP workloads not for OLAP
			§ Database Types: MS SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MariaDB, Amazon Aurora
			§ Steps:
				□ Create RDS Database
				□ Create EC Instance
					® Install database client
				□ Update security group of rds to allow connection to ec2 instance
			§ Muli-AZ vs Read replica
				□ RDS Multi-AZ
					® Exact copy of primary database in another AZ
					® Handles replication for disaster recovery
					® Automatic failover during failure
				□ RDS Read-Replica (read-only copy of primary database)
					® For scaling performance and great for read-heavy workloads like BI reporting
					® Automatic backup must be enabled
					® Can be located in same/different AZ/region
					® Has a different DNS endpoint
					® Multiple read replicas are supported (up to 5 replicas)
			§ Automated Backup vs snapshot
				□ RDS Automated Backup
					® Enabled by default
					® Creates daily backups that runs during the window you defined
					® Transaction logs are used to replay transactions.
					® Ability to do point-in-time recovery
					® Stored in S3
					® Retention period from 1 to 35 days
					® Can be used point in time recovery
				□ RDS Snapshot
					® Snapshot of storage volume attached to the DB instance
					® Manual, adhoc, user-initiated point in time snapshot
					® Stored in S3
					® No retention period
					® Backup and restore to a known state
			§ RDS Encryption
				□ Enabled during creation
				□ Uses KMS for AES-256 encryption
				□ You can't enable encryption on an unencrypted RDS instance
				□ Includes all udnerlying storage, snposhot, logs and read replicas
				□ To encrypt an existing RDS instance, use snapshot and create an encrypted snapshot and use that to restore a new RDS
			§ RDS Proxy
				□ Sits between application and RDS database
				□ Pools and shares database connections to assist with application scalability and database efficiency
				□ Serverless and scales automatically
				□ Preserves application connection during failover
				□ Detects failover and routes request to stand-by
				□ Can be deployed to multiple AZ
				□ Up to 66% faster failover times
				□ Use cases, for applications
					® With Unpredictable workloads
					® That open/close database connections infrequently
					® That require availability through transient failures
					® With open but idle connections
		○ ElastiCache
			§ Features
				□ In-Memory Cache (Key Value). Sits in front of a database like RDS
				□ Improves Database Performance
				□ Great for read-heavy database workloads
				□ If data is not changing frequently. Not for write-heavy or OLAP
			§ Types
				□ Memcached
					® Basic object caching
					® Object caching is your primary goal
					® You want to keep things as simple as possible
					® Scales horizontally, you don’t need persistence or multi-AZ or failover
					® You don't need to support advanced data types or sorting
				□ Redis
					® With enterprise features like persistence, replication, multi-AZ and failover
					® Supports sorting and ranking data (like gaming leaderboards, complex data type)
					® You have advance data type such as list and hashes
		○ Memory DB for Redis
			§ In memory database with ultra fast performance (GB to 100TB)
			§ Microsecond read and single-digit millisecond write.
			§ Can be a primary DB, can store the whole dataset in memory, no database required.
		○ ElastiCache vs MemoryDB
			§ MemoryDB can store whole dataset in memory - no database required
			§ ElastiCache is an in memory cache for databases e.g. RDS
		○ Systems Manager: Parameter Store
			§ Wider use case
			§ Stores configuration like connection string and licenses.
			§ Plain text or encrypted
			§ You can reference parameters using parameter name like in bootstrap script
			§ For configuration variables
			§ Integrate with other services like EC2, CloudFormation, etc.
		○ AWS Secrets Manager
			§ Centrally manage secrets
			§ Great for storing database credentials, API keys
			§ Supports automatic rotation of keys
			§ Encrypt using AWS KMS
			§ Secret Types
				□ RDS Database
				□ Redshift cluster
				□ DocumentDB Database
				□ Other Database
				□ API Keys
		○ RDS Proxy
			§ Use to scale your applications by pooling and sharing database connections for scalability and efficiency.
			§ Your application is pointed toward RDS proxy
			§ RDS database receives information from the application through RDS proxy.
			§ Serverless and scales automatically
			§ Preserves application connection
			§ Detects failover and routes request
			§ Deployable over muli-AZ for protection
			§ Up to 66% faster failover times
		○ EC2 Image Builder
			§ Use to create EC2 image (AMI or container), simple to use (GUI) and Validate your image.
			§ Automates the process of building and maintaining your image (AMI).
			§ Steps
				□ Select base OS
				□ Customize by adding software
				□ Test
				□ Distribute to your chosen region
			§ Terminology
				□ Image Pipeline - setting and process
				□ Image Recipe - source image and build components
				□ Build Components - software to include
		○ Distributing AMI to different region
			§ AMIs are regional
			§ To use an AMI in different region create a copy
			§ You can apply encryption in the copy process
			§ You cannot unencrypt in the copy process
	• S3
		○ S3 101
			§ Object based
			§ Not suitable to install an OS or run a DB
			§ Files up to 5TB
			§ Unlimited storage. Total volume of data and number of objects you can store is unlimited.
			§ S3 is a universal namespace
			§ https://bucket-name.s3.region.amazonaws.com/key-name
			§ HTTP 200 - successful upload
			§ S3 Object
				□ Key - object/file name
				□ Value - The data itself
				□ Version ID. Story multiple version of same object
				□ Metadata. Data about the data e.g. content-type, last-modified
	• Serverless Computing
	• DynamoDB
	• KMS and Encryption on AWS
	• Other AWS Services
	• Developer Theory
	• Advanced IAM
	• Monitoring
